Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations (Cap./Instrument No.: 374D) (Version date: 30.12.2022)
Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations
(Cap. 374, sections 7 and 14 and Cap. 1, section 29)
 
 
[25 August 1984] L.N. 300 of 1984
Part I
Preliminary
(Format changes—E.R. 3 of 2015)
1.	Citation
These regulations may be cited as the Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations.
2.	Interpretation
	(1)	In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—
authorized person (獲授權人) means any employee of a licensee on duty on or in connection with a vehicle;
chargeable amount (應收款額) means the amount of fares chargeable under Schedule 5, but does not include any amount chargeable under item 4 of that Schedule; (L.N. 219 of 2008)
cross-harbour taxi stand (過海的士站) means a taxi stand designated as a cross-harbour taxi stand under regulation 30; (L.N. 236 of 1995)
electronic record (電子紀錄) has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Electronic Transactions Ordinance (Cap. 553); (L.N. 196 of 2022)
hirer (租用人) includes a person intending to seek hire;
Lantau Link (青嶼幹線) has the meaning given by section 2 of the Tsing Ma Control Area Ordinance (Cap. 498); (L.N. 61 of 2017)
licensee (持證人) means a person who is the holder of a valid passenger service licence;
parking (泊車、停泊), subject to subregulation (2), means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when standing temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading or picking up or setting down passengers;
printing (打印) includes any electronic or mechanical mode of representing words in a visible form; (L.N. 149 of 1997)
printout (列印本) includes a copy of a printout; (L.N. 196 of 2022)
public light bus stand (公共小巴站) means an area of road designated as a public light bus stand under regulation 29 or 31;
public light bus stopping place (公共小巴停車處) means an area of road designated as a public light bus stopping place under regulation 28 or 31;
receipt printing device (收據打印設備), in relation to a taxi, means the device installed in respect of the taxi in accordance with regulation 42A of the Road Traffic (Construction and Maintenance of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. A); (L.N. 149 of 1997)
scheduled service (專綫服務) means a service of one or more vehicles authorized under a passenger service licence and limited by the conditions of such licence to specified routes;
taxi stand (的士站) means an area of road designated as a taxi stand under regulation 30 or 31.
	(2)	Notwithstanding the definition of parking (泊車、停泊) in subregulation (1), a vehicle shall be deemed not to be parked for the purposes of these regulations where it is prevented from proceeding by breakdown or other circumstances beyond the driver’s control, and all reasonable steps are taken to minimize any obstruction and effect the removal of the vehicle as soon as possible.
3.	Application
These regulations shall not apply to a public bus operated under a franchise granted under the Public Bus Services Ordinance (Cap. 230).
___________
Part II
Passenger Service Licences
(Format changes—E.R. 3 of 2015)
4.	Application for passenger service licence
	(1)	A person proposing to operate a public bus service, a private bus service, a public light bus service or a school private light bus service within the meaning of section 27 of the Ordinance may at any time deliver to the Commissioner an application for a passenger service licence in accordance with these regulations. (50 of 1999 s. 13)
	(2)	Where the Commissioner considers it desirable to introduce a service referred to in subregulation (1) he may by notice in the Gazette or in such other manner as he thinks fit, invite applications for a passenger service licence under subregulation (1).
5.	Form and contents of application
An application under regulation 4 shall be in a form specified by the Commissioner and shall set out—
	(a)	the type of service proposed;
	(b)	the route or area to be served;
	(c)	the number and type of vehicles to be operated on the service;
	(d)	the maintenance facilities proposed;
	(e)	the staff to be employed;
	(f)	the frequency at and the period on each day during which the service shall be operated;
	(g)	proposed fares (if any); and
	(h)	such other particulars as the Commissioner may require.
6.	Period of passenger service licence
A passenger service licence may be issued for a period not exceeding 5 years and may be extended by the Commissioner for a further period or periods each of not more than 5 years.
7.	Contents of passenger service licence
	(1)	A passenger service licence shall be in a form specified by the Commissioner and shall set out— (L.N. 91 of 2015)
	(a)	its date of commencement and expiry;
	(b)	the passenger service licence number;
	(c)	the name of the licensee;
	(d)	the service or services in respect of which the passenger service licence is issued;
	(e)	the registration marks of the vehicles to be operated under the passenger service licence;
	(f)	any conditions specified under section 29 of the Ordinance;
	(g)	any exemptions specified under regulation 9;
	(h)	the fee payable under regulation 10 and the date upon which such fee is payable; and
	(i)	such other particulars as the Commissioner deems necessary.
	(2)	Subregulation (1)(h) does not apply to a licence that—
	(a)	is issued on or after 1 September 2015; and
	(b)	authorizes the holder of the licence to operate a school private light bus service. (L.N. 91 of 2015)
8.	Amendment of passenger service licence
	(1)	The Commissioner may, after consultation with the licensee, by giving 3 months’ notice in writing to the licensee, either personally or by registered post, amend the terms or conditions of a passenger service licence at any time during its validity, whether by way of expansion, variation or curtailment of the service or services provided for, or otherwise. (L.N. 185 of 1988)
	(2)	Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Commissioner under subregulation (1) may, within 14 days after the notification under subregulation (1), apply in writing to the Commissioner for a review of the decision by a Transport Tribunal, and that decision shall not take effect pending the outcome of the review. (L.N. 185 of 1988)
	(3)	Regulations 55A and 55B shall apply to an application made under subregulation (2). (L.N. 185 of 1988)
9.	Exemption of licensee from regulations
The Commissioner may, in his discretion, exempt a licensee from the requirements of any provision of these regulations specified in the passenger service licence, subject to the conditions (if any) specified in such licence.
10.	Fees for passenger service licence
	(1)	This regulation applies to a passenger service licence other than one that authorizes its holder to operate a school private light bus service.
	(2)	A fee specified in Part A of Schedule 1 is payable for a passenger service licence.
	(3)	The fee is payable on the date specified in the licence.
(L.N. 91 of 2015)
11.	Licence to be delivered on cancellation, etc.
	(1)	Where a passenger service licence is cancelled, suspended or varied under section 31 or 35 of the Ordinance, or amended under regulation 8, the licensee shall, within 72 hours after such cancellation, suspension, variation or amendment comes into effect, deliver the passenger service licence to the Commissioner. (L.N. 185 of 1988)
	(2)	Where a passenger service licence is delivered under subregulation (1) the Commissioner shall—
	(a)	record the cancellation of;
	(b)	withhold; or
	(c)	amend,
the passenger service licence as the circumstances require.
11A.	Issue of duplicate passenger service licence
Where a passenger service licence issued to a licensee is lost, defaced or destroyed, the Commissioner may, on payment of the appropriate fee specified in Part A of Schedule 1, issue a duplicate licence, which shall have the same force and effect as the original licence.
(L.N. 185 of 1988)
12.	Passenger service licence certificates and plates
	(1)	The Commissioner may—
	(a)	on application by a licensee; and
	(b)	if the application is not one that relates to a passenger service licence that authorizes its holder of the licence to operate a school private light bus service, on payment of the fee specified in Part B of Schedule 1,
issue, in respect of a vehicle operated under a passenger service licence, a certificate, in the form specified by the Commissioner. (L.N. 91 of 2015)
	(2)	A certificate issued under subregulation (1) shall be valid for a period of 12 months or until the expiry of the passenger service licence to which the certificate relates, whichever is the sooner, and shall not be transferable to another vehicle. (L.N. 51 of 2007)
	(3)	Every vehicle operated under a passenger service licence shall display—
	(a)	the certificate issued under subregulation (1) on the left hand half of the vehicle’s windscreen in a manner as to be visible from the front of the vehicle; and (L.N. 185 of 1988)
	(b)	at the rear of the vehicle, a plate showing the passenger service licence number in accordance with Figure No. 2 of Schedule 2.
	(3A)	For a certificate issued under subregulation (1) in respect of a vehicle that is issued in the form of an electronic record, while a proper printout of the e-certificate is displayed on the vehicle, the printout is deemed to be the original certificate. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(4)	No person shall drive or use a vehicle operated under a passenger service licence or suffer or permit such a vehicle to be driven or used, if such vehicle—
	(a)	does not display the certificate and the plate referred to in subregulation (3);
	(b)	displays any such certificate or plate other than in the manner prescribed by subregulation (3);
	(c)	displays any certificate, printout or plate, purporting to be a certificate referred to in subregulation (3)(a), a printout referred to in subregulation (3A), or a plate referred to in subregulation (3)(b), that— (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(i)	is damaged, altered or defaced;
	(ii)	does not relate to a passenger service licence currently in force in respect of the vehicle; or
	(iii)	does not relate to the vehicle; or
	(d)	displays a certificate referred to in subregulation (3)(a), or a printout of an e-certificate, that is invalid. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(5)	Where a certificate issued under subregulation (1) is lost, destroyed, defaced or damaged, the Commissioner may, on payment of the appropriate fee specified in Part B of Schedule 1, issue a duplicate certificate, and such certificate when issued shall be deemed to be a certificate issued under subregulation (1) and shall have the same force and effect as the original certificate. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(6)	No fee payable under this regulation shall be refunded.
	(7)	In this regulation—
e-certificate (電子證明書) means a certificate issued under subregulation (1) that is issued in the form of an electronic record;
proper printout (合規格列印本), in relation to an e-certificate, means a clearly legible printout of the e-certificate that conforms to the specifications specified by the Commissioner in the conditions of the relevant passenger service licence. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
___________
Part III
Hire Car Permits
(Format changes—E.R. 6 of 2022)
13.	Interpretation
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires—
applicant (申請人) means an applicant for a hire car permit;
e-permit (電子許可證) means a hire car permit issued in the form of an electronic record; (L.N. 196 of 2022)
hire car permit (出租汽車許可證) means a hire car permit referred to in regulation 14(1);
hire car permit holder (出租汽車許可證持有人) means a person who is the holder of a valid hire car permit;
hire car service (出租汽車服務) means any type of hire car service specified in regulation 14(1);
hotel (酒店) has the meaning assigned to it by section 2 of the Hotel Proprietors Ordinance (Cap. 158);
paper permit (紙本許可證) means a hire car permit issued in paper form; (L.N. 196 of 2022)
proper printout (合規格列印本), in relation to an e-permit, means a clearly legible printout of the e-permit that conforms to the specifications specified by the Commissioner in the conditions of the permit; (L.N. 196 of 2022)
tourist agent (旅遊代理人) means any person carrying on a business in Hong Kong consisting wholly or in part of organizing and conducting tours for, or supplying guides to, visitors to Hong Kong.
14.	Issue or refusal of hire car permits
	(1)	Subject to this regulation and to regulations 15 and 19, the Commissioner may for the purpose of authorizing the use of a private car for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, issue in respect of the private car a hire car permit for any of the following types of services—
	(a)	an hotel hire car service;
	(b)	a tour hire car service;
	(c)	an airport hire car service;
	(d)	a school hire car service;
	(e)	a private hire car service.
	(2)	An application for a hire car permit in respect of a private car shall be made to the Commissioner in the specified form by the registered owner of the private car.
	(3)	On receipt of an application under subregulation (2) and on payment of a fee calculated in accordance with regulation 20, the Commissioner may issue to the applicant a hire car permit if the Commissioner—
	(a)	is satisfied—
	(i)	as to the particulars furnished in the application;
	(ii)	that there is in force in relation to the user of the private car for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward such policy of insurance or such a security in respect of third party risks as complies with the Motor Vehicles Insurance (Third Party Risks) Ordinance (Cap. 272);
	(iii)	that such policy or security will remain in force during the period of validity of the hire car permit applied for; and
	(iv)	that there is in force a vehicle licence in respect of the private car to which the application relates; and
	(b)	is of the opinion that the type of hire car service specified in the application is reasonably required.
	(4)	Subject to regulation 18, a hire car permit shall be valid until the vehicle licence of the private car in respect of which the hire car permit is issued next expires; and the Commissioner shall specify the date of expiry of the hire car permit in the permit.
	(5)	A hire car permit shall be subject to such of the conditions set out in Schedule 3 as are specified in the hire car permit and to such other conditions as the Commissioner may from time to time specify in the hire car permit.
	(5A)	For a hire car permit issued in respect of a private car that is an e-permit, while a proper printout of the e-permit is displayed on the private car, the printout is deemed to be the original hire car permit. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(6)	The Commissioner may refuse to issue a hire car permit, and if he does so, shall give the applicant notice in writing, either personally or by registered post, of his refusal and inform him of the reasons therefor; and any fee paid by the applicant under subregulation (3) shall be refunded to him.
	(7)	Where a hire car permit issued under subregulation (1) is lost, destroyed, defaced or damaged, the Commissioner may, on payment of a fee of $130, issue a duplicate permit, and such permit when issued shall be deemed to be a permit issued under subregulation (1) and shall have the same force and effect as the original permit. (L.N. 185 of 1988; L.N. 266 of 1994; L.N. 200 of 1995; L.N. 524 of 1996; L.N. 196 of 2022)
15.	Restrictions on issue of hire car permits and considerations for issue
	(1)	A hire car permit for an hotel hire car service may only be issued—
	(a)	where an hotel proprietor is the registered owner of the private car, to the hotel; or
	(b)	in any other case, to the registered owner of the private car who produces, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, written approval from the proprietor or manager of the hotel concerned for the provision of an hotel hire car service exclusively for that hotel,
and in determining whether to issue such a hire car permit, the Commissioner may have regard to, amongst other matters, whether the number of bedrooms and general standard of service provided by the hotel to which the application for the hire car permit relates, and its location, are such that an hotel hire car service is reasonably required for such an hotel.
	(2)	A hire car permit for a tour hire car service may only be issued—
	(a)	where a tourist agent is the registered owner of the private car, to the tourist agent; or
	(b)	in any other case, to the registered owner of the private car who produces, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, written approval from a tourist agent for the provision by such owner of a tour hire car service exclusively for that tourist agent,
and in determining whether to issue such a hire car permit, the Commissioner may have regard to, amongst other matters—
	(i)	the nature and availability of existing facilities for visitors to tour Hong Kong; and
	(ii)	whether the applicant has the means and experience to enable him to provide visitors to Hong Kong with a suitable standard of tour hire car service.
	(3)	(a)	A hire car permit for an airport hire car service may only be issued to the registered owner of the private car who produces, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, written approval from the Airport Authority for the provision of an airport hire car service and, in determining whether to issue such a hire car permit, the Commissioner may have regard to, amongst other matters, the nature and availability of existing facilities—  (L.N. 326 of 2000)
	(i)	for persons arriving in Hong Kong by air to reach their destination within Hong Kong; and
	(ii)	for persons intending to depart from Hong Kong by air to reach the Hong Kong International Airport.
	(b)	No other type of hire car permit shall be issued in addition to a hire car permit for an airport hire car service in respect of the same private car without the further approval in writing of the Airport Authority. (L.N. 326 of 2000; 23 of 2002 s. 92)
	(4)	A hire car permit for a school hire car service may only be issued to the registered owner of the private car and, in determining whether to issue such a hire car permit, the Commissioner may have regard to, amongst other matters—
	(a)	whether the applicant’s private car is licensed to carry 7 passengers; and
	(b)	whether the applicant is able to provide satisfactory evidence that the proposed school hire car service to the school or schools specified in his application is required by the production of written approval from the principal or head of each school concerned.
	(5)	A hire car permit for a private hire car service may only be issued to the registered owner of the private car and, in determining whether to issue such a hire car permit, the Commissioner may have regard to, amongst other matters—
	(a)	the extent to which the area from which the applicant proposes to operate the private hire car service is served by public transport;
	(b)	whether the applicant is able reasonably to demonstrate that a private hire car service is required in the area from which he proposes to operate; and
	(c)	whether the applicant has, in the area from which he proposes to operate the private hire car service, a place which, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is a suitable place to park the private car when it is available for hire.
16.	Renewal of permit
	(1)	A hire car permit holder may apply to the Commissioner in the specified form for the renewal of his hire car permit for the same type of hire car service in respect of the same private car at any time during the period of 4 months immediately preceding the date of expiry of his existing hire car permit.
	(2)	On receipt of an application under subregulation (1) the Commissioner may, subject to regulations 15 and 19, issue to the applicant a new hire car permit for the same type of hire car service in respect of the same private car; and a hire car permit issued under this regulation shall take effect from the date of expiry of the existing hire car permit.
	(3)	Regulation 14(3), (4), (5), (5A) and (6) and regulation 15 shall apply in relation to an application under subregulation (1) as if it were an application for the issue of a hire car permit under regulation 14(2). (L.N. 196 of 2022)
17.	Replacement of permit for a different vehicle
	(1)	A hire car permit holder may apply to the Commissioner in the specified form for the cancellation of his hire car permit and for a new hire car permit to be issued to him in replacement thereof for the same type of hire car service in respect of another private car of which the applicant is the registered owner.
	(2)	On receipt of an application under subregulation (1) the Commissioner may cancel the existing hire car permit and, subject to subregulation (2A) and regulations 15 and 19, issue to the applicant a new hire car permit for the same type of hire car service in respect of the other private car specified in the application.
	(2A)	If the existing hire car permit is a paper permit, the Commissioner must not issue a new hire car permit under subregulation (2) unless the existing hire car permit has been surrendered to the Commissioner. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(2B)	If the existing hire car permit is an e-permit, after the existing hire car permit is cancelled under subregulation (2), the hire car permit holder must immediately ensure that no printout of the e-permit is displayed on the private car in respect of which the permit is issued. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(3)	Regulation 14(3), (4), (5), (5A) and (6) and regulation 15 shall apply in relation to an application under subregulation (1) as if it were an application for the issue of a hire car permit under regulation 14(2).
(L.N. 196 of 2022)
18.	Validity of permits
Without prejudice to regulation 14(4), a hire car permit shall cease to be valid on the happening of any of the following events—
	(a)	the withdrawal of approval referred to in regulation 15(1)(b), (2)(b) or (3)(a) or (b) for provision of the hire car service concerned;
	(b)	the hire car permit holder ceases to be the registered owner of the private car to which the hire car permit relates;
	(c)	the hire car permit holder transfers or otherwise parts with the user of or disposes of the private car to which the hire car permit relates to any other person;
	(d)	the hire car permit is cancelled under regulation 17(2) or 22.
19.	Power to limit number of permits
	(1)	The Commissioner may by notice in the Gazette limit the number of hire car permits which may at any time be issued for any type of hire car permit specified in regulation 14(1) and may by notice in the Gazette vary any limit so set.
	(2)	Any limit notified under subregulation (1) shall not affect any hire car permit which is in force when the notice comes into operation.
	(3)	Where a limit is imposed under subregulation (1)—
	(a)	the Commissioner may by notice in the Gazette specify the manner in which, and the date by which, applications under regulation 14(2) may be made; and
	(b)	the Commissioner shall not be obliged to issue permits up to the limit so imposed.
	(4)	If the Commissioner—
	(a)	receives applications for hire car permits of a type specified in regulation 14(1) which is the subject of a notice under subregulation (1); and
	(b)	would, but for the limit under subregulation (1) on the number of the hire car permits that may be issued for that type, grant applications,
the Commissioner may cause the applications to be determined by lot.
20.	Permit fees
	(1)	Subject to subregulation (2), the fees payable for hire car permits are as follows—

(a)
for a school hire car service permit (L.N. 524 of 1996)	
$565 per annum;
(b)
for any other hire car permit	
$1,000 per annum.
	(2)	Where by reason of regulation 14(4) a hire car permit will cease to be valid—
	(a)	within 4 months of the date of the proposed issue thereof, the fee payable under this regulation shall be an amount equal to 35 per cent of the relevant annual fee specified in subregulation (1); or
	(b)	within 12 months of, but more than 4 months after, the date of the proposed issue thereof, the fee payable under this regulation shall be an amount equal to the relevant annual fee specified in subregulation (1).
	(3)	If under regulation 14(4) or for any reason under regulation 18 a hire car permit ceases to be valid, no part of the fee paid under this regulation shall be refunded.
21.	Offences and penalties for breach of permit conditions
	(1)	Any person who drives or uses any private car in respect of which a hire car permit is issued in contravention of any condition to which the hire car permit is subject under regulation 14(5) commits an offence and is liable to a fine at level 1 and to imprisonment for 6 months.
	(2)	If an offence under subregulation (1) is committed by any person other than the hire car permit holder, the hire car permit holder also commits an offence and is liable to a fine at level 1 and to imprisonment for 6 months.
	(3)	In any proceedings against a hire car permit holder for an offence under subregulation (2) the onus shall be upon the hire car permit holder to satisfy the court or magistrate that he was not aware and had no reasonable grounds for believing that the private car was driven or used in contravention of the condition of the hire car permit.
(E.R. 6 of 2022)
22.	Cancellation of permits
	(1)	The Commissioner may cancel a hire car permit if—
	(a)	any condition to which it is subject under regulation 14(5) is contravened; or
	(b)	the registered owner or a driver of the private car is convicted of an offence under section 52(3), (5), (6), (7) or (8) of the Ordinance or regulation 21.
	(2)	The Commissioner shall cancel a permit if—
	(a)	the vehicle licence of the private car in respect of which the hire car permit is issued is suspended under section 93 of the Ordinance; or
	(b)	there is not in force in relation to the user of the private car for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward such policy of insurance or such a security in respect of third party risks as complies with the Motor Vehicles Insurance (Third Party Risks) Ordinance (Cap. 272); or
	(c)	registration of the private car is transferred under regulation 16 of the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E); or (E.R. 3 of 2015)
	(d)	the vehicle licence of the private car is surrendered to the Commissioner under regulation 24 of the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E). (E.R. 3 of 2015)
	(3)	Notification of the cancellation of a permit under subregulation (1) or (2) shall be served forthwith in writing, either personally or by registered post, on the holder of the hire car permit.
23.	Right of review
	(1)	Any person aggrieved by—
	(a)	any condition specified by the Commissioner in a hire car permit under regulation 14(5); or
	(b)	any decision of the Commissioner under regulation 14(6) or 22(1),
may within 14 days after—
	(i)	the issue of the permit; or
	(ii)	the notification under regulation 14(6) or 22(3),
as the case may be, apply to the Commissioner in the appropriate specified form for a review by a Transport Tribunal of the condition or decision.
	(2)	Regulations 55A and 55B shall apply to an application made under subregulation (1). (L.N. 185 of 1988)
24.	(Repealed L.N. 185 of 1988)
25.	(Repealed L.N. 185 of 1988)
26.	Return of permits to Commissioner
	(1)	A hire car permit holder must comply with subregulation (1A) if any of the following events happens— (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(a)	the hire car permit ceases to be valid under regulation 18; (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(b)	without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a)—
	(i)	a notification under regulation 22(3) is received, unless the hire car permit holder applies for a review under regulation 23(1);
	(ii)	where an application for a review is deemed to have been withdrawn under regulation 55A(3), a notification under regulation 55A(4) is received; or
	(iii)	in the event of such a review, where the Commissioner’s decision is confirmed under regulation 55B(2), a notification under regulation 55B(3) is received. (L.N. 185 of 1988; L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(1A)	The hire car permit holder must— 
	(a)	in the case of a paper permit—
	(i)	immediately ensure that the permit is not displayed on the private car in respect of which the permit is issued; and
	(ii)	return the permit to the Commissioner within 30 days after the happening of the event; or
	(b)	in the case of an e-permit—immediately ensure that no printout of the e-permit is displayed on the private car in respect of which the permit is issued. (L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(2)	Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes subregulation (1) commits an offence and is liable to a fine at level 1. (E.R. 6 of 2022)
27.	Production of permit or records on request
	(1)	A police officer or the Commissioner may require the production for examination—
	(a)	of a hire car permit, or a proper printout of a hire car permit that is an e-permit, by any person in charge of a vehicle that the officer or the Commissioner reasonably suspects is being or has been used in the operation of a hire car service; or
	(b)	of a record referred to in condition 1(b) of Schedule 3 by the operator of a hire car service at the address or addresses specified in the hire car permit.
	(2)	The operator of a hire car service who, without reasonable excuse, fails to produce—
	(a)	the hire car permit or proper printout immediately when asked for it under subregulation (1)(a); or
	(b)	the record mentioned in subregulation (1)(b) immediately when asked for it under that subregulation,
commits an offence and is liable to a fine at level 1. (E.R. 6 of 2022)
(L.N. 196 of 2022)
___________
Part IV
Stands and Stopping Places
(Format changes—E.R. 6 of 2022)
28.	Public light bus stopping places
	(1)	The Commissioner may designate an area of road as an area within which a public light bus may stop for the purpose of picking up or setting down passengers.
	(2)	A public light bus stopping place may be designated under subregulation (1) in respect of more than one public light bus service, and notwithstanding that it is also designated as a bus stop under the Public Bus Services Ordinance (Cap. 230).
	(3)	The Commissioner shall cause every public light bus stopping place—
	(a)	where the stopping place is not also a bus stop under the Public Bus Services Ordinance (Cap. 230), to be delineated on the road by means of road markings of the type set out in Figure No. 1 of Schedule 4; and
	(b)	to be indicated by means of a traffic sign—
	(i)	where the stopping place is designated in respect of public light buses on a scheduled service only, of the type set out in Figure No. 2 of Schedule 4; or
	(ii)	where the stopping place is designated in respect of public light buses on a service other than a scheduled service, of the type set out in Figure No. 3 of Schedule 4.
29.	Public light bus stands
	(1)	The Commissioner may designate an area of road as an area within which a public light bus may stand for the purpose of picking up or setting down passengers.
	(2)	The Commissioner shall cause every public light bus stand—
	(a)	to be delineated on the road by means of road markings of the type set out in Figure No. 4 of Schedule 4; and
	(b)	to be indicated by means of a traffic sign—
	(i)	where the stand is designated in respect of public light buses on a scheduled service only, of the type set out in Figure No. 5 of Schedule 4; or
	(ii)	where the stand is designated in respect of public light buses on a service other than a scheduled service, of the type set out in Figure No. 6 of Schedule 4.
30.	Taxi stands
	(1)	The Commissioner may designate an area of road as an area within which a taxi may stand or ply for hire.
	(2)	The Commissioner shall cause every taxi stand—
	(a)	to be delineated on the road by means of road markings of the type set out in Figure No. 4 of Schedule 4; and
	(b)	to be indicated by means of a traffic sign of the type set out in Figure No. 7 of Schedule 4.
	(2A)	The Commissioner may designate a taxi stand as a cross-harbour taxi stand. (L.N. 236 of 1995)
	(3)	Where a taxi stand delineated and indicated in accordance with subregulation (2)—
	(a)	is designated in respect of taxis that are licensed to be available for hire or to carry passengers within the New Territories only, the Commissioner shall cause the taxi stand to be indicated by means of a traffic sign of the type set out in Figure No. 10 of Schedule 4;
	(aa)	is designated in respect of taxis that are licensed to be available for hire or to carry passengers within Lantau only, the Commissioner shall cause the taxi stand to be indicated by means of a traffic sign of the type set out in Figure No. 10A of Schedule 4; (L.N. 173 of 1997)
	(b)	is designated in respect of taxis other than taxis that are licensed to be available for hire or to carry passengers—
	(i)	within the New Territories only; or
	(ii)	within Lantau only,
the Commissioner shall cause the taxi stand to be indicated by means of a traffic sign of the type set out in Figure No. 11 of Schedule 4; (L.N. 173 of 1997)
	(c)	is designated in respect of taxis generally, the Commissioner shall not cause the taxi stand to be indicated by means of a traffic sign of the type set out in Figure No. 10, 10A or 11 of Schedule 4; (L.N. 261 of 1984; L.N. 173 of 1997)
	(d)	is designated as a cross-harbour taxi stand, the Commissioner shall cause the taxi stand to be indicated by means of a traffic sign of the type set out in Figure No. 12 of Schedule 4. (L.N. 236 of 1995)
31.	Designation of temporary stands and stopping places
The Commissioner of Police may designate an area of road as—
	(a)	a public light bus stopping place;
	(b)	a public light bus stand; or
	(c)	a taxi stand,
for any period not exceeding 72 hours and may indicate such designation by traffic signs of such type and description as he considers appropriate.
32.	Temporary suspension of stands and stopping places
The Commissioner of Police may suspend—
	(a)	a public light bus stopping place;
	(b)	a public light bus stand; or
	(c)	a taxi stand,
for any period not exceeding 72 hours by—
	(i)	covering or removing any traffic signs; or
	(ii)	the placing of signs of such type and description as he considers appropriate.
33.	Picking up and setting down passengers
	(1)	The driver of a public light bus on a scheduled service shall not stop to pick up or set down passengers except as specified in the passenger service licence in respect of such service.
	(2)	The driver of a public light bus on a service other than a scheduled service, shall not stop to pick up or set down passengers except—
	(a)	at a public light bus stand or public light bus stopping place; or
	(b)	when requested by a passenger or hailed by an intending passenger.
	(3)	The driver of a public bus on any public bus service shall not stop to pick up or set down passengers except as specified in the passenger service licence in respect of such service.
	(4)	The driver of a public bus or public light bus on hire within the meaning of regulation 38 shall not stop to pick up or set down passengers except at a place specified in a pre-arranged contract of hire.
	(5)	The driver of a taxi shall not stop to pick up or set down passengers except—
	(a)	at a taxi stand designated in respect of the taxi under regulation 30; or (L.N. 261 of 1984)
	(b)	when requested by a passenger or hailed by an intending passenger.
	(6)	Nothing in this regulation shall be construed as—
	(a)	permitting the driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi to stop for the purpose of picking up or setting down passengers at any place or in any manner prohibited by these regulations, the Road Traffic (Traffic Control) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. G) or any other enactment; or (E.R. 3 of 2015)
	(b)	preventing the driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi from stopping for the purpose of enabling any person to remove himself from the vehicle when ordered to do so under regulation 56.
34.	Use of stands and stopping places by public service vehicles
	(1)	The Commissioner may, by the use of the time plate in Figure No. 8 or 9 of Schedule 4, placed in conjunction with the traffic sign in Figure No. 5, 6 or 7 of that Schedule, as appropriate, specify when a public light bus stand or taxi stand may be used as such and when it may be used for parking by any class of vehicle specified on the sign.
	(2)	Subject to subregulations (3) and (4), the driver of a public light bus or taxi shall not park his vehicle at a public light bus stand or taxi stand, as the case may be, except where a traffic sign and time plate referred to in subregulation (1) so permit: (L.N. 261 of 1984)
Provided that a vehicle shall be deemed not to be parked for the purposes of this subregulation where—
	(a)	if a taxi, it is standing for hire at a taxi stand; or
	(b)	if a public light bus, it is standing for the purpose of picking up or setting down passengers at a public light bus stand.
	(3)	The driver of a public light bus on a service other than a scheduled service shall not stop or park his vehicle at any public light bus stopping place or public light bus stand which, under regulation 28 or 29, is designated in respect of public light buses on a scheduled service only.
	(4)	The driver of a taxi shall not stop or park his taxi at any taxi stand other than at a taxi stand designated in respect of the taxi under regulation 30. (L.N. 261 of 1984)
35.	Conduct at public light bus stands
	(1)	The driver of each of the first 2 public light buses standing at a public light bus stand—
	(a)	shall not, without reasonable excuse, leave his vehicle; and
	(b)	shall be ready and willing at all times to drive his vehicle from the stand.
	(2)	The driver of a public light bus standing at a public light bus stand shall—
	(a)	move up his vehicle as vacancies occur;
	(b)	if he is requested to do so by the driver of another public light bus, move his vehicle in order to permit the other public light bus to be driven from the stand; and
	(c)	move his vehicle, in accordance with any direction given to him by a police officer or traffic warden in uniform, from the stand or to any position within the stand.
	(3)	No person shall without lawful authority obstruct—
	(a)	a driver of a public light bus from—
	(i)	moving his vehicle into a public light bus stand, which has a vacant space therein;
	(ii)	moving his vehicle forward in turn to any space in front of his vehicle that becomes vacant within the public light bus stand;
	(iii)	picking up passengers when his vehicle is stopped or standing within a public light bus stand; or
	(iv)	moving his vehicle away from a public light bus stand; or
	(b)	any other person from boarding a public light bus that is stopped or standing within a public light bus stand.
	(4)	Nothing in this regulation shall be construed as preventing the driver of a public light bus from parking his vehicle at a public light bus stand where a traffic sign and time plate referred to in regulation 34(1) so permit.
36.	Conduct at taxi stands
	(1)	The driver of each of the first 2 taxis at a taxi stand shall sit in or stand beside his taxi and shall be ready to be hired at once by any person.
	(2)	The driver of every taxi at a taxi stand shall move up his taxi as vacancies occur.
	(3)	If a person wishes to engage a taxi—
	(a)	the driver of the first taxi at the taxi stand shall accept the hire; and
	(b)	the driver of a taxi other than the first taxi at the stand shall not accept the hire, unless the drivers of all taxis ahead of his taxi at the stand have either accepted a hire or are not in or near their taxis.
	(4)	Nothing in this regulation shall be construed as preventing the driver of a taxi from parking his vehicle at a taxi stand where a traffic sign and time plate referred to in regulation 34(1) so permit.
___________
Part V
Obligations of Drivers, Licensees and Passengers
(Format changes—E.R. 3 of 2015)
37.	Obligations of taxi driver
The driver of a taxi shall not without reasonable excuse—
	(a)	wilfully refuse or neglect to accept a hire from a hirer whether the intention of such hirer is indicated expressly or by implication;
	(b)	refuse or neglect to drive the taxi to any place indicated by a hirer;
	(c)	refuse or neglect to carry such number of passengers, not exceeding the number specified in the vehicle licence in respect of the taxi, as he may be required to carry by the hirer;
	(d)	when hired to drive to a specified destination, drive to such destination other than by the most direct practicable route;
	(e)	when his taxi is hired, permit any person other than the hirer to enter the taxi without the consent of the hirer; (L.N. 149 of 1997)
	(f)	refuse or neglect, after payment has been made by any person of any fare for the hiring of a taxi, to issue on demand by that person made at any time before the taxi is hired by any other person a receipt complying with the requirements of regulation 49A in respect of such payment. (L.N. 149 of 1997)
37A.	Driver may refuse hire or to drive if passenger fails to wear seat belt
The driver of a taxi or public light bus when acting as such may refuse a hire or to drive the vehicle if a passenger in the vehicle who is required by regulation 7A or 7B of the Road Traffic (Safety Equipment) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. F) to wear a seat belt refuses or fails to do so.
(L.N. 38 of 1989; L.N. 162 of 2000; E.R. 3 of 2015)
37B.	Cases where taxi driver plying for hire at a cross-harbour taxi stand may refuse hire
Notwithstanding regulation 37, the driver of a taxi which is standing or plying for hire at a cross-harbour taxi stand may refuse to accept any hire which is not for a destination across the harbour via the Cross-Harbour Tunnel, the Western Harbour Crossing or the Eastern Harbour Crossing.
(L.N. 236 of 1995; L.N. 51 of 1997)
38.	Hiring of public service vehicle as a whole
	(1)	The registered owner of a public bus or public light bus, if permitted to do so under the terms of a passenger service licence which is in force in respect of the vehicle, and the registered owner of a taxi, may hire the vehicle to any person at a rate of hire based on the time during which the vehicle is hired with or without additional charge in respect of the mileage travelled by the vehicle while it is so hired, or on such other terms as may be agreed with the hirer.
	(2)	A condition of the hiring of a vehicle under subregulation (1) may be that it shall be driven only by a person in the employ of the registered owner of the vehicle or that such a person is provided to drive the vehicle.
	(3)	Before a vehicle is hired under subregulation (1), the registered owner and hirer shall complete and sign 2 copies of a document which shall contain the following particulars—
	(a)	the rate or scale of charges applicable to the hiring;
	(b)	details of the third party risks insurance held in respect of the vehicle; and
	(c)	the names and addresses of the persons who are permitted to drive the vehicle while it is the subject of the hiring and the numbers of their driving licences.
	(4)	The registered owner shall retain one copy of the document and shall produce it on demand by a police officer made within 3 months after the commencement of the hiring.
	(5)	The hirer shall retain one copy of the document and shall produce it on demand by a police officer made during the continuance of the hiring.
39.	Insurance and driving licence
Notwithstanding anything in regulation 38, the registered owner of a public bus, public light bus or taxi shall not hire the vehicle to any person unless he is satisfied, in respect of each person whose name appears on the document referred to in regulation 38(3) as a person permitted to drive the vehicle, that—
	(a)	during the continuance of the hiring there shall be in force in relation to the user of the vehicle by each such person, such policy of insurance or such a security in respect of third party risks as complies with the Motor Vehicles Insurance (Third Party Risks) Ordinance (Cap. 272); and
	(b)	each such person is the holder of a valid driving licence issued under the Road Traffic (Driving Licences) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. B) which entitles him to drive the public bus, public light bus or taxi, as the case may be. (E.R. 3 of 2015)
40.	Soliciting
No driver or person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi, shall in any manner attract or endeavour to attract any person in order to induce such person to make use of the vehicle.
41.	Carriage of goods
	(1)	No goods other than personal hand baggage shall be carried on a public bus, public light bus or taxi, except, in the case of a public bus or public light bus, goods carried for hire or reward in accordance with a goods permit issued under the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E). (E.R. 3 of 2015)
	(2)	No personal hand baggage which is permitted under subregulation (1) shall include any goods which—
	(a)	are of a dangerous or offensive nature; or
	(b)	are not securely wrapped.
	(3)	Without prejudice to the generality of subregulation (1), in this regulation—
personal hand baggage (個人手提行李) includes wheelchairs, crutches or any other thing used as an aid to or means of mobility, carried by any passenger. (L.N. 353 of 1988)
42.	Carriage of animals, birds, etc.
	(1)	The carriage of animals and birds on a public bus or public light bus or in a taxi and the terms and conditions under which any animal or bird is carried shall be at the sole discretion of the licensee in respect of the vehicle or, in the case of a taxi, the driver of the vehicle.
	(2)	Any person who is permitted to take any animal or bird on a vehicle under subregulation (1) shall be responsible for and shall pay for any damage caused to the vehicle by the animal or bird.
43.	Public service vehicle badges
	(1)	The Commissioner may issue to any person employed as the driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi a badge showing an identifying number.
	(2)	The driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi who is issued with a badge under subregulation (1) shall, at all times when he is on duty, wear his badge in a conspicuous position.
	(3)	No person shall wear a badge issued under subregulation (1) that—
	(a)	has not been issued to him; or
	(b)	is altered or defaced.
	(4)	No person shall wear anything purporting to be a badge issued under subregulation (1) that is not such a badge.
44.	Cleanliness
The licensee in respect of a public bus or public light bus and the driver of a taxi shall ensure that the vehicle is kept in a clean and tidy condition.
45.	General conduct of driver
	(1)	The driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi, when acting as such—
	(a)	shall behave in a civil and orderly manner;
	(b)	shall be clean and tidy in his person and adequately clothed;
	(c)	shall not smoke in or on the vehicle when it has passengers on board;
	(d)	shall take all reasonable precautions to ensure the safety of passengers in or on or entering or alighting from the vehicle;
	(e)	shall ensure that all exits of the vehicle, including emergency exits, are free from obstruction and, when passengers are on board, are not locked;
	(f)	shall, if requested by any police officer or traffic warden in uniform or any person authorized by the Commissioner, give particulars of his name and address and the name and address of the licensee or owner by whom he is employed;
	(g)	shall not, at any reasonable time, obstruct, or neglect to give all reasonable information and assistance to, any person having authority to examine the vehicle;
	(h)	shall not cause the vehicle to remain stationary on a road longer than is necessary to pick up or set down passengers except at a stand or place where such vehicles are permitted to stop for a longer time than is necessary for that purpose;
	(i)	shall not unreasonably delay the journey; and
	(j)	shall not congregate or assemble with other drivers to the annoyance of members of the public.
	(2)	A driver, when in charge of a taxi, shall—
	(a)	not deceive or refuse to inform a passenger or intending passenger as to the proper fare and route to any place;
	(b)	at all times when the taxi is available for hire or is hired, carry, for the purpose of giving change, not less than—
	(i)	$90 in notes of a denomination of $10 or in coins of a denomination of $2 or more; and
	(ii)	$10 in coins of a denomination of $1 or less;
	(c)	while the taxi is available for hire, not loiter or stop elsewhere than at a taxi stand except through accident or unavoidable cause;
	(d)	while conveying passengers to or picking up passengers from any place of public amusement or assembly, draw up in order of arrival as near to the door or entrance thereto as is reasonably practicable and, subject to any direction by a police officer or traffic warden in uniform, drive the taxi away immediately after the passengers have alighted from or boarded the taxi in such manner as to cause the minimum of obstruction and congestion.
45A.	Conduct of passengers in relation to seat belts
A passenger in a taxi or public light bus who is required by regulation 7A or 7B of the Road Traffic (Safety Equipment) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. F) to wear a seat belt but who refuses or fails to do so shall— (E.R. 3 of 2015)
	(a)	leave the vehicle if so required by the driver, an authorized person or a police officer; and
	(b)	(i)	in the case of a taxi, pay the legal fare then recorded on the taximeter; and
	(ii)	in the case of a public light bus, pay, if he has not already done so, the fare indicated at the time he boarded the vehicle on the card displayed in accordance with regulation 50(3).
(L.N. 38 of 1989; L.N. 162 of 2000)
46.	General conduct of passengers
	(1)	A passenger or intending passenger on a public bus, public light bus or taxi shall not—
	(a)	use obscene or offensive language or conduct himself in a disorderly manner;
	(b)	wilfully obstruct, impede or distract the driver of the vehicle or an authorized person;
	(c)	wilfully do or cause to be done with respect to any part of the vehicle or its equipment, or any accessory thereto, anything which is calculated—
	(i)	to obstruct or interfere with the working of the vehicle or to cause damage; or
	(ii)	to cause injury, discomfort, annoyance or inconvenience to any other person;
	(d)	spit or wilfully damage, soil, deface or defile any part of the vehicle or any equipment thereon, or any accessory thereto;
	(e)	wilfully remove, displace, deface or alter any number plate, fare table, route indicator or destination board or any printed or other notice or advertisement in or on the vehicle;
	(f)	drive the vehicle, or interfere with its doors or any other mechanism, device or control which forms part of the vehicle or which is connected with the vehicle;
	(g)	enter or alight from the vehicle while it is in motion;
	(h)	when entering or attempting to enter the vehicle—
	(i)	impede any passenger seeking to enter or alight from the vehicle; or
	(ii)	behave in any other manner which is likely to delay the vehicle;
	(i)	enter, remain or travel in or on the vehicle while in possession of—
	(i)	any firearm, unless he is a police officer, or member of the Hong Kong Auxiliary Police Force under the Hong Kong Auxiliary Police Force Ordinance (Cap. 233) or of the Customs and Excise Service under the Customs and Excise Service Ordinance (Cap. 342), and is on duty; or (L.N. 362 of 1997; 76 of 1999 s. 3)
	(ii)	any other dangerous or offensive article;
	(j)	enter or remain in or on the vehicle when requested not to do so by the driver or an authorized person on the grounds that—
	(i)	the petrol or oil tank of the vehicle is to be filled;
	(ii)	the vehicle is carrying its full complement of passengers; or
	(iii)	the driver or licensee is debarred, by reason of any enactment or by reason of any condition attached to the vehicle licence or passenger service licence issued in respect of the vehicle, from permitting any passenger to enter or remain in the vehicle at the place in question;
	(k)	enter or alight from the vehicle when requested not to do so by the driver or an authorized person on the grounds that, by reason of any enactment or by reason of any condition attached to the vehicle licence or passenger service licence issued in respect of the vehicle, the place in question is a place where—
	(i)	the vehicle is not permitted to stop; or
	(ii)	the passengers are prohibited from entering or alighting from the vehicle;
	(l)	if his condition is such as to be offensive to passengers on the vehicle, or the condition of his dress or clothing is such that it may be reasonably expected to soil or injure any lining, cushion, seat or other part of the vehicle or the clothing of any passenger on the vehicle, enter or remain in or on the vehicle after the driver of the vehicle, or an authorized person or police officer, has requested him—
	(i)	not to enter the vehicle; or
	(ii)	to leave the vehicle,
by reason of his condition or of the condition of his dress or clothing;
	(m)	bring any article into or onto the vehicle without the permission of the driver or an authorized person, or place such article in any place in which such driver or authorized person may have requested him not to place such article;
	(n)	when in or on the vehicle—
	(i)	use or operate to the annoyance of any other person any noisy or musical instrument or any gramophone, radio or tape player;
	(ii)	make or combine with any other person to make excessive noise by singing or shouting;
	(iii)	throw within the vehicle or on to any road or footway any article or thing;
	(iv)	attach to or trail from the vehicle any streamer, balloon, flag or other article or set or put any thing out of the vehicle in such manner as to overhang the road; or
	(v)	lean out or put any limb out of the vehicle in such manner as to overhang the road.
	(2)	A passenger or intending passenger on a public bus or public light bus shall not—
	(a)	enter the vehicle otherwise than by the door or opening provided for the entry of passengers, or alight from a vehicle other than from the door or opening provided for the exit of passengers; or
	(b)	while in or on the vehicle—
	(i)	beg;
	(ii)	sell or offer for sale any article except with the permission of the driver or licensee; or
	(iii)	distribute printed, written or similar matter of any description or distribute any article for the purpose of advertising.
___________
Part VI
Fares and Taximeters
(Format changes—E.R. 3 of 2015)
47.	Taxi fares
	(1)	The scale of fares for the hiring of taxis shall be as specified in Schedule 5.
	(2)	No registered owner or driver of a taxi shall charge for the hiring of the taxi a fare exceeding the appropriate scale of fares specified in Schedule 5.
	(3)	Light personal hand baggage, that is to say, light suitcases, hat boxes, attache cases and similar articles may be carried inside the passenger compartment of the taxi and if so shall be carried free of charge.
	(4)	Wheelchairs and crutches of a disabled person who is a passenger in a taxi shall not be regarded as baggage for the purposes of additional fares specified in Schedule 5. (L.N. 353 of 1988)
	(5)	(Repealed 34 of 1993 s. 11)
48.	Offences in relation to fares
	(1)	No person shall—
	(a)	hire a taxi, knowing or having reason to believe that he cannot pay the legal fare chargeable under regulation 47 and with intent to avoid payment of the legal fare;
	(b)	dishonestly endeavour to avoid payment of a legal fare lawfully due from him; or
	(c)	having failed or refused to pay the fare demanded by the driver of a taxi, either refuse to give to the driver of the taxi his name and an address at which he can be found or give, with intent to deceive, a false name or address.
	(2)	No person shall—
	(a)	board a public bus or a public light bus, knowing or having reason to believe that he cannot pay the fare and with intent to avoid payment of the fare; or
	(b)	dishonestly avoid payment of a fare due from him.
	(3)	In subregulation (2) fare (車費), in relation to a public light bus, means the fare indicated on the card displayed on the vehicle under regulation 50(3).
49.	Use of taximeter, etc.
	(1)	The driver of a taxi available for hire shall—
	(a)	display the taximeter indicator; and
	(b)	during the hours of darkness keep the roof “TAXI” sign illuminated.
	(2)	The driver of a taxi as soon as the taxi has been hired shall move the taximeter indicator to the recording position and as soon as the hiring has terminated shall return the taximeter indicator to the non-recording position.
	(3)	For the purposes of subregulation (2) the hiring of the taxi shall commence from the time at which the journey begins or the time at which the taxi is first made immediately available to the hirer at the time and place appointed by the hirer, whichever first occurs.
	(4)	If for the distance covered the taximeter records a fare clearly higher than the legal fare chargeable under regulation 47, the hirer of the taxi shall not be obliged to pay to the driver more than the legal fare.
	(5)	In this regulation taximeter indicator (的士計程錶指示器) means the taximeter indicator referred to in regulation 42(1) of the Road Traffic (Construction and Maintenance of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. A). (L.N. 261 of 1984)
49A.	Receipts in respect of fares paid for hiring of a taxi
	(1)	Subject to subregulation (2), a receipt issued for the purposes of these regulations in respect of the payment of any fare for the hiring of a taxi shall—
	(a)	be printed by the receipt printing device installed in respect of the taxi; and
	(b)	comply with the requirements set out in Part I of Schedule 9.
	(2)	Where the receipt printing device installed in respect of a taxi is not in proper working order, a receipt issued for the purposes of these regulations in respect of the payment of any fare for the hiring of the taxi shall—
	(a)	be issued by the driver of the taxi to whom the payment has been made; and
	(b)	comply with the requirements set out in Part II of Schedule 9.
(L.N. 149 of 1997)
___________
Part VII
Notices
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
50.	Destination indicators and fares to be displayed on public light buses
	(1)	A driver of a public light bus when acting as such shall ensure that, at all times when it is used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, there is displayed at the front of the vehicle a destination indicator that indicates the destination of the vehicle in a clearly visible and legible manner. (L.N. 40 of 2020)
	(2)	A destination indicator displayed on a public light bus must— (L.N. 40 of 2020)
	(a)	be of a design and construction specified by the Commissioner by notice published in the Gazette; (L.N. 374 of 1989)
	(b)	clearly indicate the destination of the vehicle in English and in Chinese characters by reference to a road junction or a similarly precise location; and
	(c)	comply with the colour requirements specified in Schedule 6. (L.N. 40 of 2020)
	(3)	A driver of a public light bus when acting as such shall ensure that, at all times when it is used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, there is displayed at the front of the vehicle in a prominent position a card which complies with subregulation (4) showing the fare chargeable for carriage to the destination indicated on the destination indicator.
	(4)	A card displayed on a vehicle in accordance with subregulation (3) shall—
	(a)	be of a design and construction specified by the Commissioner by notice published in the Gazette; (L.N. 374 of 1989)
	(b)	indicate the fare in Arabic numerals with the dollar sign (“$”). (L.N. 40 of 2020)
	(5)	A licensee in respect of a public light bus, and a driver of a public light bus when acting as such, shall not—
	(a)	change or remove a destination indicator while passengers are being carried thereon with intent to induce any passenger to—
	(i)	alight from the vehicle before reaching the destination indicated on the indicator at the time the passenger boarded the vehicle; or
	(ii)	pay a fare additional to the fare indicated on the card displayed on the vehicle under subregulation (3) at the time the passenger boarded the vehicle;
	(b)	without reasonable excuse, require any passenger to alight from the vehicle before reaching the destination indicated on the destination indicator at the time the passenger boarded the vehicle; or
	(c)	cause or permit to be displayed at the front of the vehicle more than one destination indicator at any one time.
51.	Information to be displayed on certain public service vehicles
(25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(1)	When a taxi is standing or plying for hire the driver shall, subject to subregulation (1A), display so as to be clearly visible to any passenger travelling in the taxi and legible to the passenger—  (L.N. 374 of 1989; 25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(a)	a table showing in English and in Chinese characters the scale of fares chargeable in respect of the use of the taxi;
	(b)	the registration mark of the vehicle; and
	(c)	a taxi driver identity plate in a holder. (L.N. 62 of 1994)
	(1A)	A table referred to in subregulation (1) shall be of a design and construction and displayed in such position in the taxi as specified by the Commissioner by notice published in the Gazette. (L.N. 374 of 1989; L.N. 62 of 1994)
	(2)	The licensee in respect of a public light bus shall ensure that there is displayed on a plate inside the vehicle the registration mark of the vehicle.
	(3)	The owner of a taxi or a public light bus shall ensure that there is displayed on the taxi or the public light bus, so as to be clearly visible at all times of the day and night to any passenger who is required by regulation 7A or 7B of the Road Traffic (Safety Equipment) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. F) to wear a seat belt, a notice which shall meet the requirements of Schedule 8. (L.N. 38 of 1989; L.N. 162 of 2000; E.R. 2 of 2012)
	(4)	No person shall drive a taxi or a public light bus when it is being used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward unless there is displayed on the taxi or the public light bus a notice required to be displayed in accordance with subregulation (3). (L.N. 38 of 1989)
	(5)	No person shall drive a taxi when it is being used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward unless there is displayed in the taxi, so as to be clearly visible to any passenger travelling in the taxi and legible to the passenger, a taxi driver identity plate in a holder, both of which comply with the requirements of subregulations (6) and (7). (L.N. 62 of 1994; 25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(5A)	When a public light bus is standing for the purpose of picking up passengers, or being used for the carriage of passengers, for hire or reward, the driver must display in it a public light bus driver identity plate that complies with subregulation (6) in a holder that complies with subregulation (7) and neither of which is in any way obscured. (6 of 2012 s. 18)
	(5B)	A driver identity plate referred to in this regulation is valid for 10 years from the date of issue. (25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(6)	The driver identity plate referred to in subregulations (1)(c), (5) and (5A) must—  (6 of 2012 s. 18)
	(aa)	be a valid driver identity plate; (25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(a)	be of the size, design, form and construction, and displayed in the position in the taxi or public light bus, as specified by the Commissioner by notice in the Gazette; (6 of 2012 s. 18; 25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(b)	show—
	(i)	in the case of a taxi driver identity plate, the captions “TAXI DRIVER IDENTITY PLATE” and “的士司機證”; or
	(ii)	in the case of a public light bus driver identity plate, the captions “PUBLIC LIGHT BUS DRIVER IDENTITY PLATE” and “公共小巴司機證”; (6 of 2012 s. 18)
	(c)	show the driver’s full name as shown in his identity card in English and, where appropriate, in Chinese;
	(d)	bear the driver’s photograph that is recent as at the date of issue; (25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(da)	show the date of issue and the date of expiry; and (25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(e)	not show or bear any thing or matter that is not specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (da) or that is not in accordance with the form specified under paragraph (a). (L.N. 62 of 1994; 25 of 2018 s. 4)
	(7)	The holder referred to in subregulations (1)(c), (5) and (5A) must—  (6 of 2012 s. 18)
	(a)	be of the size, design and construction, and displayed in the position in the taxi or public light bus, as specified by the Commissioner by notice in the Gazette; and
	(b)	show the registration mark of the taxi or public light bus. (L.N. 62 of 1994; 6 of 2012 s. 18)
	(8)	A notice under subregulation (6) or (7) is not subsidiary legislation. (6 of 2012 s. 18)
(L.N. 62 of 1994)
52.	Information on services operated under a passenger service licence
	(1)	Subject to subregulation (2), a licensee may display signs indicating the services provided by the licensee.
	(2)	A sign referred to in subregulation (1) shall not be displayed unless it is—
	(a)	of a type; and
	(b)	at a place,
specified by the Commissioner by notice published in the Gazette. (L.N. 374 of 1989)
___________
Part VIII
Lost Property
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
53.	Lost property found by passengers
Any person who finds any property accidentally left in a public bus, public light bus or taxi shall immediately hand it in the state in which he finds it to the driver or an authorized person, who shall deal with it in accordance with these regulations.
54.	Search for lost property
Immediately after the termination of every journey or hiring of a public bus, public light bus or taxi, the driver or an authorized person shall carefully search the vehicle to ascertain whether any property has been accidentally left therein and if the vehicle is not searched by the driver or an authorized person at the termination of the journey or hiring it shall be done as soon as is practicable thereafter.
55.	Disposal of lost property
	(1)	Any driver or authorized person who finds any property left in a public bus, public light bus or taxi or any person to whom any such property is handed shall, within 6 hours, deposit such property at a police station in the state in which it was found by or handed to him and shall truly state the particulars of such finding:
Provided that if such property is sooner claimed by the owner thereof and satisfactory proof of ownership is given, it shall be restored to the owner forthwith instead of being deposited at a police station.
	(2)	Any property deposited in a police station in accordance with the provisions of subregulation (1) shall be disposed of in accordance with sections 40, 41 and 43 of the Police Force Ordinance (Cap. 232).
___________
Part VIIIA
Review by a Transport Tribunal
(Part VIIIA added L.N. 185 of 1988)
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
55A.	Review
	(1)	On receipt of an application for a review of the Commissioner’s decision by a Transport Tribunal, the Commissioner shall fix a time and place for the review and give not less than 14 days’ notice in writing thereof, either personally or by registered post, to the applicant, and shall inform him that if neither he nor his authorized representative appears at the hearing and no written representations are received, the application shall be treated as withdrawn.
	(2)	A Transport Tribunal may postpone a review if it thinks fit and where a review is postponed the Commissioner shall cause a notice in writing to be served, either personally or by registered post, on the applicant specifying the date to which the review has been postponed, and shall inform him that if neither he nor his authorized representative appears at the hearing and no written representations are received, the application shall be treated as withdrawn.
	(3)	If—
	(a)	an applicant or his authorized representative does not appear before the Transport Tribunal on the date of the review notified to him in a notice under subregulation (1) or (2); and
	(b)	an application makes no written representations,
his application for a review shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
	(4)	Where an applicant for a review is deemed to have been withdrawn under subregulation (3), the Commissioner shall give notice thereof in writing, either personally or by registered post, to the applicant.
55B.	Practice and procedure on review
	(1)	On a review a Transport Tribunal shall consider—
	(a)	any evidence received by it, whether tendered on behalf of the applicant or otherwise, which it considers relevant to the review;
	(b)	any representations made by or on behalf of the applicant, whether orally or in writing;
	(c)	any representations made by or on behalf of the Commissioner, whether orally or in writing.
	(2)	The Transport Tribunal may confirm, vary or reverse the condition or decision specified or made by the Commissioner.
	(3)	The Commissioner shall give notice in writing, either personally or by registered post, to an applicant of the Transport Tribunal’s decision under subregulation (2).
	(4)	The decision of the Transport Tribunal under subregulation (2) shall be final.
___________
Part IX
Miscellaneous
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
56.	Powers of drivers of certain public service vehicles to refuse entry and demand removal
	(1)	Without prejudice to any other provision of these regulations, the driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi may refuse entry to his vehicle or may order any person to remove himself from the vehicle where he has reasonable grounds to believe that such person has committed or is about to commit an offence against these regulations.
	(2)	No person shall—
	(a)	having been refused entry under subregulation (1), enter the vehicle; or
	(b)	having been ordered to remove himself from the vehicle under subregulation (1), fail to comply with such order.
57.	Offences
	(1)	Any person who without reasonable excuse contravenes any of the provisions of, or any requirement under, regulation 12(4), 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 45(1), 45A, 46, 48 or 49(1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine at level 2 and to imprisonment for 6 months. (L.N. 38 of 1989; L.N. 207 of 1989)
	(2)	Any person who without reasonable excuse contravenes any of the provisions of, or any requirement under, regulation 11(1), 17(2B), 33, 41, 43(2), (3) or (4), 44, 50, 51(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (5A), 52(2), 53, 54, 55(1) or 56(2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine at level 1. (L.N. 38 of 1989; L.N. 62 of 1994; 6 of 2012 s. 19; L.N. 196 of 2022)
	(3)	Any person who without reasonable excuse contravenes any of the provisions of, or any requirement under, regulation 37(c), (e) or (f), 45(2) or 49(2) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine at level 2 and to imprisonment for 6 months. (L.N. 207 of 1989; L.N. 652 of 1994; L.N. 149 of 1997)
	(4)	Any person who without reasonable excuse contravenes any of the provisions of, or any requirement under, regulation 37(a), (b) or (d), 40 or 47(2), commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine at level 3 and to imprisonment for 6 months. (L.N. 652 of 1994)
(E.R. 6 of 2022)
58.	Powers of arrest
Any—
	(a)	driver of a public bus, public light bus or taxi while on duty and while wearing his badge issued under regulation 43; and
	(b)	authorized person on duty,
may apprehend any person whom he believes on reasonable grounds to have committed an offence against regulation 45A, 46, 48 or 56 and may detain such person until he can be handed over to a police officer. (L.N. 38 of 1989)
59.	Forms
The Commissioner may specify any form required for the purposes of these regulations.
60.	Revocation
The Road Traffic (Public Omnibus, Public Light Bus and Public Car) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) and the Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) are revoked.
61.	Transitional provisions
	(1)	Without prejudice to the provisions of any other enactment, Schedule 7 shall have effect for the purposes of transition to the provisions of these regulations from the provisions of—
	(a)	the Road Traffic (Public Omnibus, Public Light Bus and Public Car) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) and the Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) revoked by regulation 60 of these regulations; and 
	(b)	the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) revoked by regulation 61 of the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E),
and shall be in addition to and shall not derogate from section 23 of the Interpretation and General Clauses Ordinance (Cap. 1).
	(2)	The Chief Executive may by order amend Schedule 7. (3 of 2002 s. 15)
	(3)	The driver of a taxi which is, immediately before the commencement‡ of the Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) (Amendment) (No. 5) Regulation 1997 (L.N. 149 of 1997), registered shall be exempt from complying with regulations 37(f) and 49A at any time before—
	(a)	the installation of a receipt printing device in respect of the taxi; or
	(b)	20 June 1998,
whichever is the earlier. (L.N. 149 of 1997)
_____________________
Editorial Note:
‡ Commencement date: 20 June 1997.
62.	Transitional provisions relating to conversion of taximeters
(L.N. 219 of 2008)
	(1)	Where the scale of fares for the hiring of taxis specified in Schedule 5 is amended, until the taximeter of a taxi affected by the amendment has been—  (L.N. 350 of 1990)
	(a)	converted to record the scale of fares as amended; and
	(b)	tested, stamped and sealed by the Commissioner,
there shall be displayed in a prominent position inside such taxi a notice in a form specified by the Commissioner setting out a table for converting the reading on such taximeter to the appropriate fare as amended. (L.N. 140 of 1990)
	(1A)	Where the scale of fares for the hiring of taxis specified in Schedule 5 is amended, until the taximeter of a taxi affected by the amendment has been converted to record the scale of fares as amended, a receipt issued for the purposes of these regulations in respect of the payment of any fare for the hiring of the taxi shall, apart from complying with the requirements of regulation 49A, set out in manuscript, next to the total amount of the fare recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter, the total amount of the fare chargeable in accordance with the scale of fares as amended. (L.N. 149 of 1997)
	(2)	If, in respect of a taxi—
	(a)	the notice referred to in subregulation (1) is not displayed in accordance with that subregulation; or
	(b)	a receipt issued for the purposes of these regulations in respect of the payment of any fare for the hiring of the taxi does not in accordance with subregulation (1A) set out the total amount of the fare chargeable in accordance with the scale of fares as amended within the meaning of that subregulation, 
the fare for the hiring of the taxi shall be the fare specified in subregulation (3). (L.N. 149 of 1997; L.N. 219 of 2008)
	(3)	The fare specified for the purposes of subregulation (2) shall be—
	(a)	if the fare recorded on the taximeter does not exceed the appropriate amount chargeable under Schedule 5, the fare recorded on the taximeter; and
	(b)	if the fare recorded on the taximeter exceeds the appropriate amount chargeable under Schedule 5, that amount. (L.N. 219 of 2008)
(L.N. 206 of 1989)
63.	Transitional provisions relating to driver identity plates
	(1)	The pre-amended Regulations continue to apply to a driver identity plate issued before the commencement date as if the Amendment Ordinance had not been enacted.
	(2)	In this regulation—
Amendment Ordinance (《修訂條例》) means the Road Traffic (Amendment) Ordinance 2018 (25 of 2018);
*commencement date (生效日期) means the date on which the Amendment Ordinance comes into operation;
driver identity plate (司機證) means a taxi driver identity plate or a public light bus driver identity plate referred to in regulation 51;
pre-amended Regulations (《未經修訂規例》) means these regulations as in force immediately before the commencement date.
(25 of 2018 s. 5)
_____________________
Editorial Note: 
* Commencement date: 6 October 2018.
___________
Part X
Temporary Fee Concessions
(Part X added L.N. 113 of 2019)
64.	Interpretation of Part X
In this Part—
concession period (寬免期) means the period from 30 December 2022 to 29 December 2023 (both dates inclusive). (L.N. 192 of 2020; L.N. 203 of 2021; L.N. 97 of 2022)
65.	Certain fees for passenger service licences waived
	(1)	Subject to subregulations (2) and (3), if a passenger service licence issued or extended under regulation 6 takes effect within the concession period, the fee payable under regulation 10(2) for the issue or extension of the licence is waived.
	(2)	The waiver under subregulation (1) of the fee specified for item 3 of Part A of Schedule 1 applies only to a student service described in section 27(5)(a) of the Ordinance.
	(3)	The total amount of fees waived under subregulation (1) in respect of a passenger service licence, or 2 or more passenger service licences that bear the same passenger service licence number, must not exceed $396.
66.	Certain fees for passenger service licence certificates waived
	(1)	Subject to subregulations (2), (3) and (4), if a certificate issued under regulation 12(1) (passenger service licence certificate) takes effect within the concession period, the fee payable under regulation 12(1)(b) for the issue of the certificate is waived.
	(2)	The waiver under subregulation (1) of the fee specified for item 3 of Part B of Schedule 1 applies only to a private bus used for operating a student service described in section 27(5)(a) of the Ordinance.
	(3)	The total amount of fees waived under subregulation (1) in respect of 2 or more passenger service licence certificates that—
	(a)	are issued for operating the same vehicle on a scheduled service; and
	(b)	bear the same passenger service licence number,
must not exceed $160.
	(4)	The total amount of fees waived under subregulation (1) in respect of 2 or more passenger service licence certificates that—
	(a)	are issued for operating the same vehicle on a service other than a scheduled service; and
	(b)	bear the same passenger service licence number,
must not exceed $160.
67.	Certain fees for hire car permits waived
	(1)	Subject to subregulation (2), if a hire car permit (other than one for an airport hire car service or school hire car service) issued under regulation 14(3), 16(2) or 17(2) takes effect within the concession period, the fee payable under regulation 14(3) for the issue of the permit is waived.
	(2)	The total amount of fees waived under subregulation (1) in respect of 2 or more hire car permits that are issued for the same type of hire car service in respect of the same private car must not exceed $1,000.
___________
Schedule 1


[regs. 10, 11A, 12, 65& 66]
(L.N. 185 of 1988; L.N. 113 of 2019)
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
Part A
Passenger Service Licence Fees
 

1.
Public bus service 	

$396 per annum
2.
Public light bus service 	

$396 per annum
3.
Private bus service 	

$396 per annum
3A.
(Repealed L.N. 91 of 2015)


4.
Any duplicate licence (L.N. 185 of 1988)	

$125
(L.N. 266 of 1994; L.N. 200 of 1995; L.N. 524 of 1996; L.N. 31 of 1998; L.N. 144 of 1998)
Part B
Passenger Service Licence Certificate Fees
 

1.
Public bus 	

$160 per vehicle per annum
2.
Public light bus 	

$160 per vehicle per annum
3.
Private bus 	

$160 per vehicle per annum
3A.
(Repealed L.N. 91 of 2015)


4.
Any duplicate certificate 	

$100 per vehicle
(L.N. 299 of 1990; L.N. 266 of 1994; L.N. 200 of 1995; L.N. 524 of 1996; L.N. 31 of 1998; L.N. 144 of 1998)
___________
Schedule 2


[reg. 12]
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
 
 
Dimensions of the Figures in this Schedule are in Millimetres Unless Otherwise Indicated
 
 
Figure No. 1
 
 
(Repealed L.N. 185 of 1988)
 
Figure No. 2
 
 
 
 

 
 
Passenger Service Licence Plate
 
 
Plate to be displayed at the back of a vehicle.
For vehicle used on a scheduled service—green in place of red.
___________
Schedule 3


[regs. 14(5) & 27]
Conditions for the User of a Private Vehicle in Respect of which a Permit is Issued under Part III
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2012)
1.	(a)	The hire car service shall be operated only from an address—
	(i)	specified in the hire car permit issued therefor; and
	(ii)	registered with the Commissioner.
	(b)	No hire car service hiring shall commence unless there is first recorded in the specified form of record at the address mentioned in paragraph (a) or at such other address (if any) specified in the hire car permit—
	(i)	the name of the person hiring the private car; and
	(ii)	a brief description of the journey for which the private car is hired.
2.	The hire car permit shall be displayed inside the private car in respect of which it is issued in such manner as is approved by the Commissioner in writing.
3.	A hire car permit holder shall not place or cause to be placed on or in the private car any marking, words, sign or device visible on or from the outside of the car except such as may be approved or required by law or by the Commissioner in writing.
4.	The private car shall not be fitted with any equipment permitting the driver to transmit and receive messages by radio, unless the hire car permit is for an hotel hire car service or an airport hire car service.
5.	A private car in respect of which a hire car permit is issued for an hotel hire car service shall not be hired other than for the conveyance of guests of an hotel which is specified in the hire car permit and of persons bona fide accompanying such guests.
6.	A private car in respect of which a hire car permit is issued for a tour hire car service shall not be hired other than for the conveyance of visitors to Hong Kong and of persons bona fide accompanying such visitors on a journey which commences and terminates at the same point.
7.	A private car in respect of which a hire car permit is issued for an airport hire car service shall not be hired other than for the conveyance of persons who board or alight from the vehicle at the Hong Kong International Airport. (23 of 2002 s. 93)
8.	A private car in respect of which a hire car permit is issued for a school hire car service shall not be hired other than for the conveyance of the students, teachers and employees of any schools.
___________
Schedule 4


[regs. 28, 29, 30 & 34]
(Format changes—E.R. 6 of 2022)
 
 
Dimensions of the Figures in this Schedule are in Millimetres Unless Otherwise Indicated
 
 
Figure No. 1
 
 

 
 
Stopping Place
 
 
This road marking when placed in conjunction with the sign in— (E.R. 6 of 2022)
(a)	Figure No. 2 demarcates the limits of a stopping place that may be used by vehicle on scheduled services.
(b)	Figure No. 3 demarcates the limits of a stopping place that may be used by public light buses.
 
Figure No. 2
 
 

 
 
Scheduled Service Stopping Place
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with the road marking in Figure No. 1 indicates a stopping place that may be used by vehicles on scheduled services.
 
Figure No. 3
 
 

 
 
Public Light Bus Stopping Place
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with the road marking in Figure No. 1 indicates a stopping place that may be used by public light buses.
 
Figure No. 4
 
 

 
 
Scheduled Service Stand
Public Light Bus Stand
Taxi Stand
 
 
This road marking when placed in conjunction with the sign in— (E.R. 6 of 2022)
(a)	Figure No. 5 demarcates the limits of a part of the carriageway upon which vehicles on scheduled services are permitted to stand;
(b)	Figure No. 6 demarcates the limits of a part of the carriageway upon which public light buses are permitted to stand;
(c)	Figure No. 7 demarcates the limits of a part of the carriageway upon which taxis are permitted to stand.
Where a sign in Figure No. 5, 6 or 7 is placed in conjunction with a time plate in Figure No. 8 or 9 as appropriate. A stand designated by this road marking may also be available at certain times for parking as permitted by the time plate.
 
Figure No. 5
 
 

 
 
Scheduled Service Stand
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with the road marking shown in Figure No. 4 demarcates the limits of a part of the carriageway upon which vehicles on scheduled services are permitted to stand. It may also be placed in conjunction with the time plate in Figure No. 8.
 
Figure No. 6
 
 

 
 
Public Light Bus Stand
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with the road marking shown in Figure No. 4 demarcates the limits of a part of the carriageway upon which public light buses are permitted to stand. It may also be placed in conjunction with the time plate in Figure No. 8.
 
Figure No. 7
 
 

 
 
Taxi Stand
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with the road marking shown in Figure No. 4 demarcates the limits of a part of the carriageway upon which taxis are permitted to stand. It may also be placed in conjunction with the time plate in Figure No. 9 and the supplementary plate in Figure No. 10, 10A, 11 or 12.
(L.N. 261 of 1984; L.N. 236 of 1995; L.N. 173 of 1997)
 
Figure No. 8
 
 

 
 
Time Plate
 
 
This sign may be used in conjunction with the signs in— (E.R. 6 of 2022)
(a)	Figure No. 5 to indicate when the space may be used as a scheduled service stand and that at other times it may be used for the parking of vehicles on scheduled services.
(b)	Figure No. 6 to indicate when the space may be used as a public light bus stand and that at other times it may be used for the parking of public light buses.
The wording on the sign may be varied to specify any period of time or any day or days or to delete the reference to parking. The dimensions of the sign may be varied to suit any variation in the wording.
 
Figure No. 9
 
 

 
 
Time Plate
 
 
This sign may be used in conjunction with the sign in Figure No. 7 to indicate when the space may be used as a taxi stand and that at other times it may be used for the parking of taxis.
 
The wording on the sign may be varied to specify any period of time or any day or days or to delete reference to parking. The dimensions of the sign may be varied to suit any variation in the wording.
 
Figure No. 10
 
 

 
 
Supplementary Plate
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with Figure No. 7 indicates that the taxi stand may be used by taxis licensed to be available for hire or to carry passengers within the New Territories only, i.e. within the permitted area for New Territories taxis specified in Schedule 7 to the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E) under Cap. 374.
(L.N. 261 of 1984; E.R. 6 of 2022)
 
Figure No. 10A
 
 

 
 
Supplementary Plate
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with Figure No. 7 indicates that the taxi stand may be used by taxis licensed to be available for hire or to carry passengers within Lantau only, i.e. within the permitted area for Lantau taxis specified in Schedule 7 to the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E) under Cap. 374.
(L.N. 173 of 1997; E.R. 6 of 2022)
 
Figure No. 11
 
 

 
 
Supplementary Plate
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with Figure No. 7 indicates that the taxi stand may be used by taxis other than those licensed to be available for hire or to carry passengers within the New Territories only or Lantau only, i.e. within the permitted area for New Territories taxis or Lantau taxis specified in Schedule 7 to the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E) under Cap. 374.
(L.N. 173 of 1997; E.R. 6 of 2022)
 
Figure No. 12
 
 

 
 
Supplementary Plate
 
 
This sign when placed in conjunction with Figure No. 7 indicates that the taxi stand is a cross-harbour taxi stand.
(L.N. 236 of 1995)
___________
Schedule 5


[regs. 2, 47 & 62 & Sch. 9]
(L.N. 219 of 2008; L.N. 151 of 2013)
Taxi Fares
(Format changes—E.R. 2 of 2014)

1. 
Taxis licensed to operate in Hong Kong and Kowloon (L.N. 353 of 1988; L.N. 75 of 1998; L.N. 12 of 2008; L.N. 219 of 2008)	




(A)

 

$27.00 for the first 2 kilometres or any part of those 2 kilometres; 





(B)
$1.90 for every further 200 metres or any part of those 200 metres, until the chargeable amount reaches $93.50; and





(C)
$1.30 for every 200 metres or any part of those 200 metres, after the chargeable amount has reached $93.50.
2. 
Taxis licensed to operate within Lantau (L.N. 308 of 1992; L.N. 225 of 1995; L.N. 225 of 1996; L.N. 15 of 1998; L.N. 219 of 2008) 	




(A)

 

$22.00 for the first 2 kilometres or any part of those 2 kilometres; 





(B) 
$1.70 for every further 200 metres or any part of those 200 metres, until the chargeable amount reaches $175.00; and





(C)
$1.50 for every 200 metres or any part of those 200 metres, after the chargeable amount has reached $175.00.
2a. 
Taxis licensed to operate in the New Territories (L.N. 353 of 1988; L.N. 12 of 2008; L.N. 9 of 2009)	



(A)


$23.50 for the first 2 kilometres or any part of those 2 kilometres; 





(B)
$1.70 for every further 200 metres or any part of those 200 metres, until the chargeable amount reaches $74.50; and





(C)
$1.30 for every 200 metres or any part of those 200 metres, after the chargeable amount has reached $74.50.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Waiting Time


 

(i) 
Taxis licensed to operate in Hong Kong and Kowloon (L.N. 219 of 2008) 	



(A)


$1.90 for every period of 1 minute, or any part of that period, during which the taxi is hired but not in motion, until the chargeable amount reaches $93.50; and 





(B)
$1.30 for every period of 1 minute, or any part of that period, during which the taxi is hired but not in motion, after the chargeable amount has reached $93.50.

(ii)
Taxis licensed to operate within Lantau (L.N. 219 of 2008)	



(A)


$1.70 for every period of 1 minute, or any part of that period, during which the taxi is hired but not in motion, until the chargeable amount reaches $175.00; and





(B)
$1.50 for every period of 1 minute, or any part of that period, during which the taxi is hired but not in motion, after the chargeable amount has reached $175.00.

(iii) 
Taxis licensed to operate in the New Territories (L.N. 9 of 2009)	



(A)


$1.70 for every period of 1 minute, or any part of that period, during which the taxi is hired but not in motion, until the chargeable amount reaches $74.50; and





(B)
$1.30 for every period of 1 minute, or any part of that period, during which the taxi is hired but not in motion, after the chargeable amount has reached $74.50.
3a.
(Repealed L.N. 211 of 1991)


 
4. 
Additional Fares


 

(i) 
For every article of baggage carried in accordance with regulation 41—


 


(a) 
Taxis licensed to operate in Hong Kong and Kowloon 	

 
 
 
 
 
$6.00


(b) 
Taxis licensed to operate in the New Territories 	

 
 
 
$6.00


(c) 
Taxis licensed to operate within Lantau (L.N. 140 of 1990; L.N. 225 of 1996) 	


 

$6.00

(ii)
For every animal or bird carried in accordance with regulation 42—


 


(a) 
Taxis licensed to operate in Hong Kong and Kowloon 	


 
$5.00


(b) 
Taxis licensed to operate in the New Territories 	

 
 
 
$5.00


(c) 
Taxis licensed to operate within Lantau (L.N. 140 of 1990; L.N. 225 of 1996)	


 

$5.00































(iii)
For every hiring involving the use of the Lion Rock Tunnel, the Shing Mun Tunnels, the Tate’s Cairn Tunnel, the Aberdeen Tunnel, the Cross-Harbour Tunnel or the Eastern Harbour Crossing (20 of 2021 s. 81; L.N. 36 of 2020)
 

The appropriate toll for the use of the tunnel concerned, as specified in Part 1, 2, 3 or 3A of Schedule 2 to the Road Tunnels (Government) Regulations (Cap. 368 sub. leg. A).

(iiia)
For every hiring involving the use of the Tai Lam Tunnel or the Western Harbour Crossing (20 of 2021 s. 81)
 

The toll paid by the driver of the taxi during the hiring for the use of the tunnel concerned.

(iv)
(a)
For every hiring which is for a destination across the harbour via the Cross-Harbour Tunnel where the hiring does not begin from a cross-harbour taxi stand (L.N. 50 of 1997; L.N. 512 of 1997)	


 
 
 
 


$10.00


(b) 
For every hiring which is for a destination across the harbour via the Eastern Harbour Crossing or the Western Harbour Crossing where the hiring does not begin from a cross-harbour taxi stand (L.N. 512 of 1997)	


 
 
 
 
 
 

$15.00

(v) 
(Repealed L.N. 83 of 2005)
 
 


 

(vi) 
(Repealed L.N. 36 of 2020)



(via)
(Repealed L.N. 36 of 2020)




(viab)
(Repealed L.N. 36 of 2020)




(viac)
(Repealed L.N. 36 of 2020)




(viad)
(Repealed L.N. 36 of 2020)




(vib) 
For every hiring involving the use of the toll area within the meaning of the Tsing Sha Control Area Ordinance (Cap. 594) (16 of 2007 s. 31; 20 of 2021 s. 81) 	


 
 
 
 
The appropriate toll for the use of the toll area, as specified in Schedule 1 to the Tsing Sha Control Area (Tolls, Fees and Charges) Regulation (Cap. 594 sub. leg. B).

(vic) 
(Repealed L.N. 61 of 2017)




(vii) 
For every hiring arranged through telephone booking—


 


(a) 
Taxis licensed to operate in Hong Kong and Kowloon 	

 
 
 
 
 
$5.00


(b) 
Taxis licensed to operate in the New Territories 	

 
 
 
$5.00


(c) 
Taxis licensed to operate within Lantau (L.N. 140 of 1990) 	


 
$5.00
(L.N. 33 of 1984; L.N. 261 of 1984; L.N. 52 of 1986; L.N. 51 of 1987; L.N. 248 of 1987; L.N. 385 of 1987; L.N. 353 of 1988; L.N. 206 of 1989; L.N. 140 of 1990; L.N. 194 of 1990; L.N. 6 of 1992; L.N. 382 of 1993; L.N. 6 of 1994; L.N. 653 of 1994; L.N. 562 of 1995; L.N. 69 of 1997; L.N. 69 of 2011; L.N. 151 of 2013; L.N. 20 of 2017; L.N. 103 of 2022)
___________
Schedule 6


[reg. 50(2)]
Colour Requirements for Indicating Destination of Public Light Buses
(Schedule 6 replaced L.N. 40 of 2020)
1.	For a destination indicated by means of a roller blind—letters and characters in white on a dark blue, green, yellow or red background.
2.	For a destination indicated by any other means—letters and characters in yellow or amber on a dark non-reflective background.
___________
Schedule 7


[reg. 61(1)]
Transitional Provisions
(Format changes—E.R. 6 of 2022)
1.	An area of road designated as a taxi stand under regulation 13(1) of the revoked Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) shall be deemed to have been designated as a taxi stand under regulation 30(1) of these regulations.
2.	An area of road designated as a public light bus stand under regulation 39A(1) of the revoked Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) shall be deemed to have been designated as a public light bus stand under regulation 29(1) of these regulations.
3.	Any road marking delineated or sign erected in accordance with regulation 13(3) or 39A(3) of the revoked Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.), in respect of a taxi stand or public light bus stand, shall be deemed to be a road marking delineated or traffic sign erected in accordance with regulation 30(2) or 29(2) of these regulations, as the case may be.
4.	A contract of hire entered into in accordance with regulation 35 of the revoked Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations shall be deemed to be a contract of hire entered into in accordance with regulation 38 of these regulations.
5.	A hire car permit issued or renewed under Part IIA of the revoked Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) shall, if the permit is valid at the commencement^ of these regulations, be deemed to be a hire car permit issued under Part III of these regulations.
6.	A bus stop designated under regulation 22 of the revoked Road Traffic (public Omnibus, Public Light Bus and Public Car) Regulations (Cap. 220 sub. leg.) shall continue to have effect as if that regulation had not been revoked.
7.	Without prejudice to any other provision of this Schedule, in so far as any application, determination or decision made or having effect as if made, direction or notice issued, given or delivered or having effect as if issued, given or delivered, condition imposed or having effect as if imposed, fee paid, exemption made, or other thing done or having effect as if done, under the revoked Road Traffic (Public Omnibus, Public Light Bus and Public Car) Regulations or Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations could have been made, issued, given, imposed, paid or done under a corresponding provision of these regulations it shall not be invalidated by the revocation effected by regulation 60 of these regulations, but shall have effect as if made, issued, given, delivered, imposed, paid or done under that corresponding provision.
8.	For the purposes of this Schedule revoked (撤銷) means—
	(a)	in the case of the Road Traffic (Public Omnibus, Public Light Bus and Public Car) Regulations and the Road Traffic (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations, revoked by regulation 60 of these regulations;
	(b)	in the case of the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations, revoked by regulation 61 of the Road Traffic (Registration and Licensing of Vehicles) Regulations (Cap. 374 sub. leg. E).
_____________________
Editorial Note:
^ Commencement date: 25 August 1984.
___________
Schedule 8


[reg. 51(3)]
Requirements of a Notice under Regulation 51(3)
(Format changes—E.R. 6 of 2022)
 
 
A notice referred to in regulation 51(3) shall—
	(a)	clearly indicate to the passenger referred to in that regulation, that if he does not wear a seat belt—
	(i)	he commits an offence;
	(ii)	the driver of the vehicle may refuse the hire or to drive; and
	(iii)	he may be required to pay the fare and leave the vehicle;
	(b)	be in English and Chinese; and (L.N. 71 of 1989)
	(c)	be of a size and a background colour and consist of such letters and characters of a size and colour so as to be easily legible and visible to a passenger referred to in regulation 51(3), and be constructed of a durable and water resistant material.
(L.N. 38 of 1989)
___________
Schedule 9


[reg. 49A]
(Format changes—E.R. 6 of 2022)
Part I
Requirements Applicable to Receipts Issued for the Purposes of Regulation 49A(1)
 
 
For the purposes of regulation 49A(1), a receipt issued in respect of the payment of any fare for the hiring of a taxi shall—
	(a)	be in a form from time to time specified by the Commissioner;
	(b)	subject to subparagraph (a), set out—
	(i)	the registration mark of the taxi;
	(ii)	the date and time such hiring commences;
	(iii)	the date and time such hiring terminates;
	(iv)	the total distance travelled in the course of such hiring;
	(v)	the distance for which a fare has been included by way of item 1, 2 or 2a of Schedule 5 in the fare recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi;
	(vi)	the period of time for which a fare has been included by way of item 3 of Schedule 5 in the fare recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi;
	(vii)	the amount of the additional fares which have been included by way of item 4 of Schedule 5 in the fare recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi; and
	(viii)	the total amount of the fares recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi;
	(c)	consist of letters, characters and figures printed in black or blue, each of which is not less than 2 millimeters in height; and
	(d)	be printed on paper with a white background.
Part II
Requirements Applicable to Receipts Issued for the Purposes of Regulation 49A(2)
 
 
For the purposes of regulation 49A(2)—
	(a)	a receipt issued in respect of the payment of any fare for the hiring of a taxi shall set out by completion in manuscript of a pre-printed form complying with the requirements of subparagraph (b)—
	(i)	the registration mark of the taxi;
	(ii)	the date when such hiring commences;
	(iii)	the time when such hiring terminates;
	(iv)	the amount of the fares which have been included by way of item 1, 2 or 2a and of item 3 of Schedule 5 in the fare recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi;
	(v)	the amount of the additional fares which have been included by way of item 4 of Schedule 5 in the fare recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi;
	(vi)	the total amount of the fares recorded in respect of such hiring on the taximeter fitted to the taxi; and
	(vii)	the name of the driver of the taxi; and
	(b)	the pre-printed form referred to in subparagraph (a) shall be in a form from time to time specified by the Commissioner.
(L.N. 149 of 1997)
